Q. What is AI Network and AIN?
A.  AI Network is a type of cloud service platform built on the foundation of blockchain technology. Through this novel infrastructure, microservices developed by individual developers can be instantly integrated into the network of computers. In lieu of a single company owning all applications used by the general public on a daily basis, developers all around the world contribute to small parts of the application. To achieve this goal, blockchain is built from the ground up to prioritize scalability, concurrency, and efficiency in computational throughput. The AI Network currency is achieved through the “AI Network Blockchain’, and our ecosystem’s unit of currency is called “AIN”. AIN needs to be reserved when accessing deployed services on the blockchain.

Q. How would you differentiate AIN with other AI/ML related blockchain projects?
A.  Unlike other blockchain projects that mainly focus on solving problems on distributed computing, AIN is both solving distributed computing via blockchain and developing solution market platform for ML. Our goal is to lower the bar for those who are willing to use ML solutions without in-depth knowledge. At the end of the day, AIN will open a window of opportunity for researchers and companies that require data for ML but lack expertise that will eventually lead to the dramatic growth of the ML solution market itself.

Q. Why would you recommend to use decentralized computing machines via AIN compared to using Google or Amazon cloud platforms for ML jobs?
A.  Using decentralized computing power(P2P) is not the only option for participants using AI Network. Cloud platforms, such as Google and AWS, will also be part of AIN’s backend computing resources along with P2P. Users of AIN, AI researchers and companies will be able to choose between the options depending on their context. If a user needs to train an AI model asap, AIN will assign requested job to centralized cloud platform to meet their needs: speed. On the other hand, if a user wants their ML job to be done cost efficiently, but has relatively more time, AIN will mainly assign it to P2P computing resources to meet his/her goal. Either way, AIN will be the answer to both users.

Q. AIN isn’t blockchain as a platform like Ethereum or EOS, but more specialized in specific area, AI and ML. Do you think AI industry is sizable enough and expected to grow fast? 
A.  Google and most other tech companies see  AI as the next engine for every product and service, not as one specific area. According to a recent report on AI, the market size is approximately 2.7 billion USD in 2017 but expected to reach 9.9 billion USD market by 2022. The figure includes AI tools/service, AI cloud/on-premises environment, and AI applications market size and AIN covers every domain mentioned above. (Source: marketsandmarkets.com, Artificial Intelligence Platform Market) 

Q. What is the role of the admin and its relation to other roles(e.g. worker, evaluator) in AIN blockchain protocol?
A.  Admin is a node that receives an ML job request from client and initiate the job by defining job schema to recruit workers and evaluators of the job. If a node wants to register and receive a job order as an admin, it normally provides its record(e.g. Github link) to clients in order to win their trust (but self-registering as an admin in AIN is open to everyone). Whereas evaluators and workers are allowed to  join the job by obtaining approval from the admin, and also be punished by admin if they’re considered as malicious workers or evaluators. The client, who has requested the job, can challenge the job results to the admin if he isn’t satisfied with it. To find out the token economics behind this process, refer to the architecture paper.

Q. Would you propose an example of job execution scenario on AIN?
A.  The AI Network blockchain, composed of permissionless nodes, records rules for service communication, and programs are then executed off the blockchain by resource providers who monitor the blockchain, following the communication rules agreed on the blockchain.
AIN is charged when executing the program, and the executor can be application users, developers, or even another program. The mechanism of the program execution is described by job specifications. The executor of the program, who uses the service also has an option of preemptive buying. With this option, the executor will be able to reserve usage of services from a specific resource provider at a fixed AIN price for a fixed period, as well as to eliminate the risk of AIN price fluctuation during execution. 
Unlike synchronous executions of smart contracts, the AI network prioritises real-time execution over preserving execution order. This post-consensus protocol enables high transaction throughput, low latency, and high concurrency in processing transactions. AI Network’s execution can be asynchronous, and the arrival of results may be different from initiation order. Later results may get interrupted and dropped. As such, the blockchain plays a vital role in maintaining a consensus and keeping the consistent state among lists of conflicting executions.

Q. I don’t see clear rationale to run ML on Blockchain. Can you explain why?
A.  Simply said, users need dropbox but also need P2P file sharing services such as torrent. Coming back to our case, P2P computing solution is not the alternative of existing centralized computing. While few big companies create private cloud environment to run ML or utilize Google or Amazon’s cloud ML services, the majority of others, including small researchers, and companies get left behind in the era of AI due to limited budget and human resources. By using AIN, companies and researchers can decouple the costs of developing ML solution onto the cloud, and costs of running an ML model, which will allow them to cut huge costs.
There is an open project known as Leela Zero (http://zero.sjeng.org/) that replicates AlphaGo Zero in an open environment. Due to development teams’ computing power and budget constraint, people who are willing to support Leela Zero project can provide their computing power P2P. AIN’s blockchain technology makes computing power donations much easier.

Q. Are smart contracts used?
A. We do implement smart contracts, but not heavily. Thus, AIN runs extremely quickly and cost-efficiently compared to other smart contract based blockchains that use virtual machines and small sized memory in the blocks. Since massive computing power is required to run ML jobs, we believe current AIN protocol architecture with minimal smart contract usage is more suitable for ML.

Q. At the early stage of AIN with a limited number of participants performing the job, how would you prevent malicious collusion between the admin and other players for the client?
A.  Workers’ jobs are always being audited by evaluators. However, if all three of them (admin, worker, and evaluator) agree to create a collusion and return the wrong result, the client has a means to protect himself by “blind challenge” that allows other admins to evaluate the job result by giving proper rewards. For more details on how this works, please refer to the architecture paper.

Q. I have concerns about data protection for ML jobs. It seems to be exposed to nodes performing requested job(aka. worker). Any thoughts?
A.  AIN does not enforce admins, or nodes, that will organize job schema as per clients’ request, to adopt a certain type of security technology, but provides several methods to protect data and models. A few examples are as follows:
Data obfuscation: scramble data to prevent unauthorized access to sensitive materials.
Selecting different types of data storage: Users can use centralized storages such as Google Cloud Storage and Amazon S3, or decentralized cloud storage such as IPFS.
ACL Control: allow access only to authorized nodes for a certain time period.
Fragmentation: models and data can be fragmented and trained separately so that solution providers can only access only a small portion of the solution.

Q. When nodes spend their computing power mostly on AI problem solving, mining difficulty can drop and may give signals for 51% attacks on AIN network to hostile nodes. What are your thoughts on this?
A.  Changes on mining difficulty are expected and also intended by dev team. Decreased difficulty would result in higher AIN mining profit, more incentives for miners/nodes to join our network, and eventually more nodes allow researchers/companies to run AI jobs with cheaper price than existing cloud platforms, which is one of our objectives to build this network and ecosystem. 
Theoretically, 51% attacks can happen in any network but it’s a matter of the cost and its return. In the early days of Bitcoin, difficulty of mining was much lower than the present, but we haven’t observed frequent alert messages of 51% attack. One of the method to prevent 51% attack is not only increasing mining difficulty, but also increasing the number of confirmation. Considering current mining difficulty and entire hash power in our network, we can always find the way to prevent 51% attack based on practices mentioned above.

Q. What’s your plan to invite computing power suppliers such as miners to AIN?
A.  It’s crucial for us to have miners and other big computing power suppliers join AIN for network stabilization. We’re currently contacting a few representative mining pools in China and Korea and we expect to have concrete results soon.

Q. Have you run any POC(proof of concept) for AIN protocol?
A.  Our development team is currently running simulations to check if there are any structural issue with our model. One of the focal points is detecting, preventing, and if needed, punishing malicious nodes. Understanding the expected ratio of returning wrong or zero value by the workers, as well as job approval by evaluators is absolutely essential.

Q. How long will it take to finish AIN blockchain development?
A.  AIN blockchain only includes communication records (can be regarded as ledger). Thus, we won’t need smart contracts in our block and will be relatively easily develop. However, establishing an AI solution market and connecting each component of AIN(SRE, big storage, and blockchain etc.) will take more time and effort than developing blockchain itself.

