 Kevin_Jacobsen Film December 2, 2019 11:00AM

Bong Joon ho is the talk of the town for his genre-bending new film “Parasite.” The filmmaker collected the Palme d’Or at the Cannes Film Festival and is expected to be a major presence at the upcoming award season. Past notable films include “Snowpiercer,” “The Host” and “Okja.”

Bong recently spoke with Gold Derby senior editor Zach Laws about his reaction to winning the Palme d’Or, how he explores the human condition and class divide in “Parasite” and his collaborations with actor Song Kang-ho.

SEEBong Joon Ho (‘Parasite’) is rising fast in the Oscar race for Best Director
Gold Derby: Bong Joon-ho, your new film, “Parasite,” has received international acclaim and a lot of awards buzz. I wanna start off just by asking you about the Palme d’Or win. Did you have a sense that you might’ve been in the running for that? Were you surprised by it?


Bong Joon ho: I didn’t expect it at all. It was so shocking. It was a huge honor. Me, the actors, my team members had such a great night but the next day I tried to forget it as much as possible. On my flight out of Cannes, I started writing a new script.

GD: Well, I’m really excited to hear about that one. It’s really hard to talk about this movie without giving away a bunch of spoilers but I’m gonna try my best. Let me just ask you where the idea for this came from.

BJH: “Parasite,” the story is about infiltration and like the protagonist, when I was in college I tutored for a very rich family and I got this very strange feeling that I was spying on the private lives of complete strangers, so those memories were my inspiration.

GD: It’s interesting the way that this film explores issues of class. Was that always something that you were fascinated by in exploring cinematically?

BJH: “Parasite” and “Snowpiercer” deal with very similar themes but the original graphic novel that “Snowpiercer” is based on was published in the ‘80s in France, and of course, recently there was “Us” by Jordan Peele and “Shoplifters” by Hirokazu [Kore-eda]. In past decades, there were so many works that dealt with class and I think it’s a very natural duty for creators to reflect the times that they live in and it’s not as if I’m announcing to the world that I’m only gonna deal with class for the rest of my life. It’s just something that revolves around us creators very naturally.


GD: Yeah, certainly art is a reflection of life. To reflect what’s going on in the world at large right now, that is part of your responsibility. What’s really surprising about this movie, and you’ve done this in your other work as well, but in here it’s really amplified, the way that you mix all these different tones. At times it’s really funny, at times it’s violent, at times it’s really sad. Was that a difficult line to tow?

BJH: As you said, in this film there are funny moments, there are scary moments, there are sad moments. It’s a mix of all these delicate human emotions and I don’t really think that they constantly shift throughout the film. I think all these elements actually strengthen each other. I think for me, it would actually be more difficult to maintain a singular tone throughout the entire running time of the film and I think just as humans in our daily lives, our emotions change so much throughout the day. We have a very wide spectrum of various emotions and just in two hours, our emotions can change more than dozens of times, so I think it reflects a very natural aspect of the human condition. It’s not as if I intend to be playful with playing around all these genre conventions.

GD: I would love to hear about your visual approach to the movie. I was particularly interested in the way that you show the discrepancies in class between these two families. Can you talk about that and just about your stylistic approach in general?

BJH: In “Snowpiercer,” it all happens in a horizontal train where the rich are in the front cars and in “Parasite,” it’s a very vertical structure where the rich are on top. It also features a lot of staircases. In the film’s opening scene, the camera pans down to our protagonists and the central rain sequence, it’s also very vertical as water flows from top to the bottom, so the visual strategy of this film was that sense of vertical top to bottom flow.

SEEWill the more international Oscars make room for both Bong Joon Ho (‘Parasite’) and Pedro Almodovar (‘Pain and Glory’)?
GD: I wanted to ask you about the cast. In particular about Song Kang-ho. He’s worked with you a lot and I wonder what that relationship between the two of you is like and just about your general approach to working with actors.

BJH: A couple days ago, “The Irishman” premiered at the New York Film Festival and there was incredible responses. Can’t even count how many films [Robert] De Niro and [Martin] Scorsese have done together and I really admire that partnership between the director and actor and with Song, I’ve had the honor of working with him on four films but I still feel like I’ve only managed to discover a small part of the goldmine that is Song Kang-ho. I would love to explore this actor even further, but “Parasite” is an ensemble piece. We have 10 characters who each have their very important role in the story and so, Song understood that really well and really prioritized the chemistry between the family members, so it was a very enjoyable experience where the atmosphere was very family-like.

GD: It’s funny, he really does disappear into this role. It wasn’t until the very end of the movie, which I wouldn’t dare spoil at all that I realized, “Oh, that’s that guy, yeah.”

BJH: He’s a chameleon.

GD: I found it really interesting the way you play with this moral ambiguity with the characters. Without giving too much away, on the one hand, they’re doing things that you at first think are, shall we say, criminal, but you find yourself really rooting for them. Can you talk a bit about that?

BJH: I think what you said is the dangerous charm that this film, story and the actors have. No one’s a criminal originally but they do commit bad things. Nonetheless, as the audience member, you wish for their success. You really just can’t hate them and even with the rich characters as well, they’re not your traditional greedy, malicious, rich characters. There is really no true villain in this film, but even then, the film ends with that explosive, disastrous moment and I think that in itself is the core question of this film. There aren’t any gangsters, criminals or villains in this film, but why does that scary, explosive moment happen in the end?
Parasite (Korean: 기생충; RR: Gisaengchung) is a 2019 South Korean dark comedy thriller film directed by Bong Joon-ho, who also co-wrote the screenplay with Han Jin-won. It stars Song Kang-ho, Lee Sun-kyun, Cho Yeo-jeong, Choi Woo-shik and Park So-dam and follows the members of a poor family who scheme to become employed by a wealthy family by infiltrating their household and posing as unrelated, highly qualified individuals.

The film premiered at the 2019 Cannes Film Festival on 21 May 2019, where it became the first South Korean film to win the Palme d'Or and the first film to win with a unanimous vote since Blue Is the Warmest Colour at the 2013 Festival. It was then released in South Korea by CJ Entertainment on 30 May 2019. It received universal critical acclaim, and has been hailed as one of the greatest South Korean films ever made and one of the best films of the 2010s. It has grossed over $176 million worldwide on a production budget of about $11 million.

Among its numerous accolades, Parasite won a leading four awards at the 92nd Academy Awards for Best Picture, Best Director, Best Original Screenplay and Best International Feature Film. It became the first South Korean film to receive Academy Award recognition, as well as the first non-English language film to win Best Picture.[note 1] It also won the Golden Globe Award for Best Foreign Language Film, the BAFTA Award for Best Film Not in the English Language, and became the first non-English language film to win the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture.


Contents
1	Plot
2	Cast
3	Production
3.1	Development
3.2	Filming
4	Themes and interpretations
5	Release
6	Reception
6.1	Box office
6.2	Critical response
6.3	Awards and nominations
7	Spin-off television series
8	See also
9	Notes
10	References
11	External links
Plot
The Kim family—father Ki-taek, mother Chung-sook, daughter Ki-jeong and son Ki-woo—live in a small semi-basement apartment (banjiha)[10], have low-paying temporary jobs, and struggle to make ends meet. One day Min-hyuk, a friend of Ki-woo's and a university student, gives the family a scholar's rock, which is meant to promise wealth to whoever possesses it. He suggests that, when he leaves to study abroad, Ki-woo should take over his job as an English tutor to the wealthy Park family's daughter, Da-hye. Ki-woo poses as a university student and is hired by the Parks; Mrs. Park decides to call him Kevin.

Subsequently, the Kim family begins to infiltrate the home of the Parks by recommending each other's services, posing as unrelated but sophisticated skilled workers. Ki-woo tutors and begins a romance with Da-hye. Ki-jeong poses as "Jessica", an art therapist, who agrees to counsel the Parks' restless young son, Da-song. Ki-jeong frames Mr. Park's chauffeur for having sex in the car, and Ki-taek is hired to replace him. Finally, Chung-sook takes over as the Parks' housekeeper after the Kims exploit the long-time housekeeper's severe peach allergy and convince Mrs. Park that she has tuberculosis.

When the Parks leave home to go on a camping trip, the Kim family revels in the luxuries of the mansion. Unexpectedly, Moon-gwang, the former housekeeper, returns. She reveals a hidden entrance to an underground bunker, created by the architect and previous owner of the mansion. Over four years ago, before the Parks moved in, Moon-gwang's husband, Geun-sae, began secretly living underneath the home to hide from loan sharks. After realizing the truth about the Kim family, Moon-gwang threatens to tell the Parks their secret if they do not, in turn, keep hers.

Because of a rainstorm, the Parks return home early from their camping trip, and the Kim family scrambles to clean up the home, while a brawl breaks out among Moon-gwang, Geun-sae, and the Kims. The Kim family trap Geun-sae and a fatally wounded Moon-gwang—she was kicked down a flight of stairs by Chung-sook—in the bunker. After Chung-sook serves her dinner, Mrs. Park reveals to her that Da-song had a traumatic experience years ago when he witnessed a "ghost"—Geun-sae—emerging from the basement. As the remaining Kims hide nearby, Mr. Park complains to his wife about Ki-taek's smell.

Escaping from the Parks' house, the Kims return to their apartment and find it completely flooded due to the storm, and are forced to sleep in a gymnasium with other displaced people. The next day, Mrs. Park decides to host a party for Da-song's birthday. She invites Ki-jeong and Ki-woo, while Ki-taek and Chung-sook are required to attend as employees. In the middle of the party, Ki-woo heads down to the bunker with the scholar's rock to kill Geun-sae. After accidentally dropping the rock down the stairs, he is attacked by Geun-sae, who bludgeons him with the rock and escapes. Seeking to avenge Moon-gwang, Geun-sae stabs Ki-jeong with a kitchen knife in front of the horrified guests. Da-song suffers a trauma-induced seizure upon seeing Geun-sae, and a struggle breaks out until Chung-sook kills Geun-sae with a skewer. While Ki-taek attempts to help Ki-jeong, Mr. Park orders him to drive Da-song to the hospital. In the chaos, Ki-taek, upon seeing Mr. Park's disgusted reaction towards Geun-sae's smell, takes the knife and fatally stabs Mr. Park before fleeing the scene.

Weeks later, Ki-woo has survived the attack and wakes up from his coma. He and Chung-sook are convicted of fraud and put on probation, while it is revealed that Ki-jeong has died from her injury and Ki-taek, who is wanted for Mr. Park's murder, has vanished. Geun-sae’s motives for the attack are a mystery to the public. Ki-woo continues to scope out the Parks' home, which has now been sold to a German family, and sees a message in Morse code from the flickering lights. It is from Ki-taek, who is now living in the bunker. Still living in the semi-basement apartment, Ki-woo writes a letter to his father, vowing that he will one day earn enough money to purchase the house, free his father, and reunite as a family.

Cast
Song Kang-ho as Kim Ki-taek, father of the Kim family
Choi Woo-shik as Kim Ki-woo, son of the Kim family
Park So-dam as Kim Ki-jeong, daughter of the Kim family
Jang Hye-jin as Kim Chung-sook, mother of the Kim family
Lee Sun-kyun as Park Dong-ik, father of the Park family
Cho Yeo-jeong as Choi Yeon-gyo, mother of the Park family
Jung Ji-so as Park Da-hye, daughter of the Park family
Jung Hyeon-jun as Park Da-song, son of the Park family
Lee Jung-eun as Gook Moon-gwang, the housekeeper
Park Myung-hoon as Geun-sae, Moon-gwang's husband
Park Geun-rok as Yoon, the chauffeur
Park Seo-joon as Min-hyuk[11]
Production
Development
The idea for Parasite originated in 2013. While working on Snowpiercer, Bong was encouraged by a theatre actor friend to write a play. He had been a tutor for the son of a wealthy family in Seoul in his early 20s, and considered turning his experience into a stage production.[12] After completing Snowpiercer, Bong wrote a 15-page film treatment for the first half of Parasite, which his production assistant on Snowpiercer, Han Jin-won, turned into three different drafts of the screenplay.[12] After finishing Okja, Bong returned to the project and finished the script; Han received credit as a co-writer.[12]

Bong has acknowledged that the film was influenced by the 1960 Korean "domestic Gothic" film The Housemaid, in which a middle-class family's stability is threatened by the arrival of a disruptive interloper in the form of household help.[13] The incident of Christine and Léa Papin—two live-in maids who murdered their employers in 1930s France—also served as a source of inspiration to Bong.[14]

The film's title "Parasite" was selected by Bong as it served a double meaning, which he had to convince the film's marketing group to use. Bong said "Because the story is about the poor family infiltrating and creeping into the rich house, it seems very obvious that Parasite refers to the poor family, and I think that's why the marketing team was a little hesitant. But if you look at it the other way, you can say that rich family, they're also parasites in terms of labor. They can't even wash dishes, they can't drive themselves, so they leech off the poor family's labor. So both are parasites."[15]

Darcy Paquet, an American residing in Korea, served as translator for the English subtitles and worked directly with Bong.[16] Paquet rendered Jjapaguri or Chapaguri (짜파구리), a dish cooked by a character in the film, as ram-don, meaning ramen-udon. It is a mix of Chapagetti and Neoguri.[17] The English version of the film shows packages labelled in English "ramyeon" and "udon" to highlight to English speakers how the name was created. Paquet believed the word ram-don did not previously exist as he found no results on Google.[18] On one occasion, Paquet used Oxford University as a reference instead of Seoul National University, and in another, used WhatsApp as the messaging application instead of KakaoTalk.[16] Paquet chose Oxford over Harvard University because of Bong's affinity for the United Kingdom, and because Paquet believed using Harvard would be "too obvious a choice."[18] Paquet wrote, "[I]n order for humor to work, people need to understand it immediately. With an unfamiliar word, the humor is lost."[18]

Filming
Principal photography for Parasite began on 18 May 2018[19][20] and ended 77 days later on 19 September 2018.[21] Filming took place around Seoul and in Jeonju.[22]

The Parks' house, said in the film to be designed by a fictional architect named Namgoong Hyeonja, was an entirely newly-built set.[23] Production designer Lee Ha-jun said the sun was an important factor with building the outdoor set. "The sun's direction was a crucial point of consideration while we were searching for outdoor lots," explained Lee. "We had to remember the sun's position during our desired time frame and determine the positions and sizes of the windows accordingly. In terms of practical lighting, the DP [director of photography Hong Kyung-pyo] had specific requests regarding the color. He wanted sophisticated indirect lighting and the warmth from tungsten light sources. Before building the set, the DP and I visited the lot several times to check the sun's movement at each time, and we decided on the set's location together."[24]

"Since Mr. Park's house is built by an architect in the story, it wasn't easy finding the right approach to designing the house," he added. "I'm not an architect, and I think there's a difference in how an architect envisions a space and how a production designer does. We prioritize blocking and camera angles while architects build spaces for people to actually live in and thus design around people. So I think the approach is very different."[24]

According to editor Jinmo Yang, Bong Joon-Ho chose to shoot the film without traditional coverage. To give them more editing options with limited shots, they sometimes stitched together different takes of the same shot.[25]

Themes and interpretations
The main themes of Parasite are class conflict and social inequality.[26][27] Film critics and Bong Joon-ho himself have considered the film as a reflection of modern capitalism,[28][29] and some have associated it with the term "Hell Joseon", a phrase which has become popular, especially with young people, in the late 2010s to describe the difficulties of life in South Korea.[30][31] The film also analyses the use of "connections" to get ahead, especially for rich families[32] but also for the poor Kims as well.

Bong has referred to Parasite as an upstairs/downstairs or "stairway movie",[14] in which staircases are used as a motif to represent the positions of the Kim and Park families as well as those of Moon-gwang.[33] The semi-basement apartment that the Kims live in are common for poorer Seoul residents due to their low rent prices, despite having several issues such as increased mold and risk of disease.[26] Monsoon floods such as the one depicted in the film increasingly damage these types of residences the most.[32] Some critics see references to the unjust consequences of climate change.[34]

According to Bong, the ending implies that Ki-woo will not be able to earn the funds needed to buy the house as it shows Ki-woo still in the basement; he described this shot as a "surefire kill" (확인사살), referring to a coup de grace to ensure death.[14] The ending song refers to Ki-woo working to get money to make the house; Choi Woo-shik stated that "I'm pretty sure Ki-woo is one of those bright kids. He'll come up with some idea, and he would just go into the German family's house, and I think he will rescue his father."[35]

The Park family's young son, Da-song, is obsessed with "Indians" and owns Native American themed toys and decorations.[36] According to Bong, they are inauthentic replicas, as "the mom [talks] about how she purchased things on American sites. And so basically, she purchased all these Native American goods from Amazon."[37] Bong has noted that "the Native Americans have a very complicated and long, deep history. But in this family, that story is reduced to a young boy’s hobby and decoration," likening it to wearing a Che Guevara T-shirt without knowing about the revolutionary's life. "That’s what happens in our current time: The context and meaning behind these actual things only exists as a surface-level thing."[38]

Release

Director and stars at an April 2019 press event.
The film had its world premiere at the 2019 Cannes Film Festival on 21 May.[39] It was released in South Korea on 30 May 2019.[4][21]

Neon acquired the North American rights to the film at the 2018 American Film Market.[40][41] The film's rights were also pre-sold to German-speaking territories (Koch Films), French-speaking territories (The Jokers) and Japan (Bitters End).[42]

It was released in Australia and New Zealand by Madman Films on 27 June 2019[43] (becoming both the highest-ever-grossing Korean film in the region[44] and the distributor's highest-ever-grossing non-English-language film in Australia),[45] Russia on 4 July 2019, and in the United States and Canada on 11 October 2019.[46]

The film was originally scheduled to be screened as a closing film at FIRST International Film Festival Xining in China on 28 July 2019, but on 27 July, the film festival organizers announced that the screening was cancelled for "technical reasons."[47]

It was licensed for the United Kingdom and Ireland by Curzon Artificial Eye at Cannes, and had preview screenings with an interview with Bong Joon-ho shared live by satellite on 3 February 2020, followed by the film's general release on 7 February.[48]

Universal Pictures Home Entertainment has released this film on Blu-ray in the US,[49] and in several other countries, including the United Kingdom, Spain, Germany and Russia, by respective local distributors.[50]

Reception
Box office
As of 11 February 2020, Parasite has grossed $36.7 million in the United States and Canada, and $139.9 million in other territories (including $72 million from South Korea), for a worldwide total of $176.6 million.[6][51] It set a new record for Bong, becoming the first of his films to gross over $100 million worldwide.[52]

In the film's United States opening weekend, the film grossed $376,264 from three theatres. Its per-venue average of $125,421 was the best since La La Land's in 2016, and the best ever for an international film.[53] It expanded to 33 theatres in its second weekend, making $1.24 million,[54] and then made $1.8 million from 129 theatres in its third.[55] The film made $2.5 million in its fourth weekend and $2.6 million in its fifth.[56] The film's theatre count peaked in its sixth weekend at 620, when it made $1.9 million.[57] It continued to hold well in the following weekends, making $1.3 million and $1 million.[58][59] In its tenth week of release the film crossed the $20 million mark (rare for an international film), making $632,500 from 306 theatres.[60] The weekend of the Oscars (its 18th of release) the film made $1.5 million from 1,060 theatres, for a running total of $35.5 million.[61] As a result of the Oscar wins, Neon plans to double the number of theaters showing Parasite starting on the weekend of 14 February 2020.[62]

The film grossed US$20.7 million on its opening weekend in South Korea.[7]

On 5 February, Parasite became the first Korean movie in nearly 15 years that surpassed 1 million moviegoers in Japan.[63] In the UK, it broke the record for the opening weekend of a non-English language film, making £1.4m ($1.8m) including previews over its debut weekend, from 135 screens.[64]

Critical response
The film was highly acclaimed. In Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 99% based on 400 reviews, with an average rating of 9.36/10. The website's critical consensus reads: "An urgent, brilliantly layered look at timely social themes, Parasite finds writer-director Bong Joon Ho in near-total command of his craft."[65] On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 96 out of 100 based on reviews from 52 critics, indicating "universal acclaim".[66]

Writing for The New York Times, A.O. Scott described the film as "wildly entertaining, the kind of smart, generous, aesthetically-energized movie that obliterates the tired distinctions between art films and popcorn movies."[67] Bilge Ebiri of New York magazine wrote that Parasite is "a work that is itself in a state of constant, agitated transformation—a nerve-racking masterpiece whose spell lingers long after its haunting final image."[68] In his five-star review of the film, Dave Calhoun of Time Out praised the social commentary and stated that "This is a dazzling work, surprising and fully gripping from beginning to end, full of big bangs and small wonders."[69] Variety's Jessica Kiang described the film as "a wild, wild ride," writing that "Bong is back and on brilliant form, but he is unmistakably, roaringly furious, and it registers because the target is so deserving, so enormous, so 2019: Parasite is a tick fat with the bitter blood of class rage."[70] The A.V. Club's A. A. Dowd gave the film an A−, praising the fun and surprising twists.[71] Joshua Rivera from GQ gave a glowing review and declared Parasite to be "Maybe 2019's best film", further adding, "It's so top-to-bottom satisfying that even being completely spoiled couldn't ruin it – but if you can come to it cold, you'll be floored."[72] Parasite also ranked 1st in a survey conducted by IndieWire of over 300 critics, in the Best Film, Best Director, Best Screenplay and Best Foreign Film categories.[73]

Parasite appeared on over 240 critics' year-end top-ten lists, including 77 who ranked the film first.[74] On Metacritic, Parasite was rated as the best film of 2019[74][75] and ranked 7th among the films with the highest scores of the decade.[76] As of 28 December 2019, it is the 40th highest-rated film of all time on the website.[77]

Awards and nominations

Bong Joon-ho garnered widespread critical acclaim for his direction and was awarded the Academy Award for Best Director.
Main article: List of accolades received by Parasite
Parasite won the Palme d'Or at the 2019 Cannes Film Festival. It was the first South Korean film to do so, as well as the first film to win with a unanimous vote since Blue Is the Warmest Colour at the Festival in 2013.[78][79] At the 77th Golden Globe Awards, the film was nominated for three awards including Best Director and Best Screenplay, and won Best Foreign Language Film, becoming the first ever Korean film to achieve that feat.[80][81]

It was selected as the South Korean entry for Best International Feature Film at the 92nd Academy Awards, making the December shortlist.[82][83][84] It went on to win four awards: Best Picture, Best Director, International Feature Film and Original Screenplay. It was the first non-English language film in Oscar history to win the award for Best Picture. Bong Joon-ho won all four categories for which he was nominated, tying the record for most wins in a single night with Walt Disney, who set the record in 1953.[note 2][86] Bong became the first person to win four awards for a single film in Academy Award history.[87] Parasite is the first South Korean-made film to be nominated for the Best Picture award at the Academy Awards, and the second East Asian film to receive a Best Picture nomination after Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon.[88] It also received nominations for Best Production Design and Best Film Editing.[89][90]

Parasite became the second international film to ever be nominated for Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture since the film Life Is Beautiful (1997) , and ultimately won the category, making history as the first ever international film to win the prize.[citation needed] It was nominated for four awards at the 73rd British Academy Film Awards: Best Film, Best Director, Best Original Screenplay and Best Film Not in the English Language. It is the first Korean film to receive nominations at the British Academy Film Awards (except for Best Film Not in the English Language). It went on to win the awards for Best Film Not in the English Language and Best Original Screenplay.[91][92]

Spin-off television series
An HBO limited series based on the film, with Bong and Adam McKay adapting and executively producing, is in early development.[93] Bong has stated that the series, also titled Parasite, will explore stories "that happen in between the sequences in the film".[94][95] In February, Mark Ruffalo was being eyed to star in the series.[96]

See also
	Film portal
List of accolades received by Parasite
List of submissions to the 92nd Academy Awards for Best International Feature Film
List of South Korean submissions for the Academy Award for Best International Feature Film
Notes
 Although Parasite was the first non-English-language film to win Best Picture at the Oscars, it is not to be confused with the first foreign film (produced by a company of a country that does not have English as its primary language) to win Best Picture, which was achieved by The Artist in 2012. The French-produced film was largely silent with French intertitles and contained a few spoken lines in English.[8] The Academy dictates foreign language as the main qualification for international film, hence The Artist did not qualify.[9]
 This achievement was made possible by a change to the rules regarding Best International Feature (formerly known as Best Foreign Language Film) in 2014. Previously, awards in this category were presented to the country of the film and accepted by the director on behalf of the country. Only the name of the country was etched onto the statuette. Since the 86th ceremony, the director's name is also on the statuette, and the director may keep it

 Bong Joon-ho’s Dystopia Is Already Here The Korean director’s ruthless, bleak new film Parasite is the most fun you’ll have in theaters this fall.
By E. Alex Jung

Photo: Robert Maxwell
This article was featured in One Great Story, New York’s reading recommendation newsletter. Sign up here to get it nightly.

The standoff between Bong Joon-ho and Harvey Weinstein over the U.S. cut of Snowpiercer had all the hallmarks of a scene the director might shoot himself. High drama. The Korean auteur versus the bullish American. Philosophical questions of artistic integrity in the time of mass consumption. Gallows humor.

Snowpiercer is a unique hybrid. It looks like a slick Hollywood action movie with revolutionary themes, depicting a class rebellion set in a sci-fi dystopia led by none other than Captain America himself, Chris Evans. But despite its blockbuster appeal, Snowpiercer languished in limbo in the U.S. The Weinstein Company bought the distribution rights in 2012, but instead of giving the film an immediate release date, Weinstein demanded changes. He wanted to cut 25 minutes. He wanted more action, “more Chris Evans.”


“It was a doomed encounter,” Bong tells me over breakfast one morning in Los Angeles. “I’m someone who until that point had only ever released the ‘director’s cut’ of my films. I’ve never done an edit I didn’t want to do.” And yet, he says, “Weinstein’s nickname is ‘Harvey Scissorhands,’ and he took such pride in his edit of the film. I am so proud of my edit!” Bong is a commanding presence, six feet tall and honey-bear shaped. He’s a mesmeric storyteller with killer comic timing, and he does a bombastic Weinstein impression — all hot air and hand gestures — punctuated by his wild, authorial hair.

Bong remembers one fateful meeting in Tribeca when he and Weinstein watched the movie together. “Wow, you are a genius,” he would say. “Let’s cut out the dialogue.”

Bong was at a loss: Cutting 25 minutes felt like taking out a major organ. Without the dialogue, the movie became incoherent; character motivation made no sense. That day, he managed to save one scene, the moment when a train guard guts a fish in front of the rebels as a show of intimidation. Bong and his cinematographer loved that shot. “Harvey hated it. Why fish? We need action!” Bong remembers. “I had a headache in that moment: What do I do? So suddenly, I said, ‘Harvey, this shot means something to me.’ ”

Get unlimited access to Vulture and everything else New York LEARN MORE »
“Oh, Bong? What?” Bong-as-Harvey booms.

“It’s something personal,” Bong replies. “My father was a fisherman. I’m dedicating this shot to my father.”

Weinstein relents immediately: “You should have said something earlier, Bong! Family is the most important. You have the shot.”

“I said, ‘Thank you,’” Bong says, laughing. “It was a fucking lie. My father was not a fisherman.”

Still, the disagreement dragged on for months. Weinstein showed his edit to a test audience of about 250 in Paramus, New Jersey, at a giant multiplex that reminded Bong of Kevin Smith’s Mallrats. Bong thought for sure the reaction scores would vindicate him. And indeed, with so much of the dialogue excised, viewers felt lost and gave the film low marks. “On the inside, I was happy that the scores were bad,” he says. “But Weinstein comes out and goes, ‘Bong! Yeah, the score is very bad. Let’s cut out more.’”


“The whole thing was like a black comedy,” he continues. “If this was someone else’s movie and you were making a documentary of the situation, it would be really funny. Unfortunately, it was my movie.”

If it had come down to it, and Weinstein’s cut been released, Bong says he would have taken his name off the movie. But eventually the director prevailed. The distribution contract allowed him to show the original version to another test audience in Pasadena, California, where it played to much higher scores. Meanwhile, news of the conflict had leaked to the press, rallying cinephiles and the film’s stars, including John Hurt and Tilda Swinton, who wanted to see Bong’s version preserved. Weinstein backed down with a compromise: He kicked the movie down to the company’s independent arm, Radius. Instead of a wide release, it got a limited one. “Maybe for [Weinstein], it was some kind of punishment to a filmmaker who doesn’t do what he wants,” says Bong. “But for me, we were all very happy. Yeah! Director’s cut!”

To a viewer familiar with Bong’s work, the metatext in the conflict is unmistakable. His films often center on underdogs fighting against authoritarian forces. In his 2006 breakout movie, The Host, a bickering Korean family finds itself battling a giant river monster born of American malfeasance: A U.S. military official orders a Korean lackey to pour hundreds of bottles of formaldehyde directly down the drain (an actual incident that occurred in Seoul in 2000), thereby creating a beast that terrorizes the city of Seoul (that part didn’t happen). The movie is an obvious metaphor for the global superpower that has often bullied and eaten up smaller countries like Korea.

In Okja, Bong’s follow-up to Snowpiercer, the protagonist is a young Korean girl from the countryside trying to save her pet super-pig from the grip of a multi­national corporation. Bong slipped in an inside joke about the whole Weinstein ordeal, setting the final slaughterhouse scene in Paramus. After all, he felt a little like Okja, the titular pig, going from Korea to New York only to get dragged all the way to Paramus in order to get sliced and diced for mass consumption. But as the story would have it, both the pig and the movie survived intact.



Photo: Robert Maxwell
Bong and I are heading west in a car toward his hotel in Beverly Hills. He’s in the middle of the North American festival circuit, where he’s been showing his new film, Parasite; he just arrived from Telluride the night before, and he’ll be heading off to Toronto in a few days. He has a “tastemaker screening” later tonight. “It’s the same in any country: Korea, Japan,” Bong says in Korean. “You know, doing preview screenings for movie people.”

Of course, we are dancing around his journey into the carnival that is an Academy Awards campaign, which seems to mildly amuse him from a distance. I ask what he thinks of the fact that no Korean film has ever been nominated for an Oscar despite the country’s outsize influence on cinema in the past two decades. “It’s a little strange, but it’s not a big deal,” he says, shrugging. “The Oscars are not an international film festival. They’re very local.”

Still, it’s hard not to feel that Bong could make (local) history. In a post-Roma world, maybe Parasite doesn’t get just Best International Film but Best Picture and Best Director nominations, too. Bong has already had a brilliant year: At the Cannes Film Festival this spring, he became the first Korean director to win the Palme d’Or, in a unanimous jury decision. The Korean press was rapturous upon his return. “Normally, people don’t care about film festivals. But I guess people really seem to focus on first place,” he says. He and Parasite star Song Kang-ho were greeted at Incheon airport as if they were the K-Pop group BTS. “It was an Olympic-gold-medal kind of feeling,” he says. “It was very awkward in the airport. Super awkward.”


The director has been a household name in South Korea ever since The Host, which became an instant blockbuster and the highest-grossing movie in the country’s history at the time. Snowpiercer broadened his scope, allowing him to think more globally. Then came Okja — at a cost of $57 million, Bong’s biggest-budget film to date — which he made with Netflix because it gave him complete creative control. After the experience with Weinstein, he wanted to ensure that every contract stipulated he have final-cut approval. Netflix didn’t balk at any of his demands. “Other studios were like, ‘Are you really going to film a little kid going inside of a slaughterhouse?’ ” Bong says. “Only Netflix guaranteed 100 percent approval of everything to me: the final cut and the rating.”





The Bong Joon-ho Essentials, clockwise from top left: Memories of Murder (2003), The Host (2006), Snowpiercer (2013), and Mother (2009). Photo: Mary Evans/C J ENTERTAINMENT/Ronald Grant/Everett Collection; Magnolia Pictures/Everett Collection; Weinstein Company/Everett Collection; Magnolia Pictures/Everett Collection.
Parasite is smaller in scale but feels like the work of a master filmmaker evolving into a new stage, maintaining many of his signature moves — spectacular visuals, an uncanny sense of dread, and a dark, wry sense of humor — while compressing them into a two-hour thriller. At the outset, it’s a black comedy about class differences well suited to our season of scams. It follows the Kim family, who live in a half-basement apartment where the only sunlight trickles in from a narrow window near the ceiling. They catch a break when the eldest son, Ki-woo (Choi Woo-shik), is hired as an English tutor for the teenage daughter of the fabulously wealthy Park family. Ki-woo rebrands himself as “Kevin” and helps the rest of his family infiltrate the house. Everyone pretends to be someone they’re not: The sister (Park So-dam) becomes an “art therapist” for the youngest son, the father (played by Song) becomes the driver, and the mother (Jang Hye-jin) is hired as the housekeeper. The way Parasite’s story unfolds from there is like a magic trick. It alternately entertains and devastates, like a candy bar with a razor blade tucked inside.


“He’s just such a masterful storyteller, and on top of that, he knows how to have fun,” says the actor Steven Yeun, who worked with Bong on Okja. “He turns it up slightly Technicolor.” His films are rooted in genre conventions like action and horror that eventually give way to crushing realism. Memories of Murder is a scathing black comedy about police incompetence, The Host is an indictment of American hubris disguised as a monster movie, and Okja is a Totoro-esque escape story until the gears of factory farming begin to turn. In Parasite, the scam ultimately reveals something more insidious: that wealth is always built upon poverty and that the two are locked in a constant struggle. The poor wish to be rich, and in order for someone to be rich, someone else must be poor.

Bong’s work reflects anxieties he feels every day — about the climate crisis, the widening income gap. “My films generally seem to have three components: fear, anxiety, and a kekeke sense of humor,” he says, using the Korean equivalent of “ha-ha.” “Humor comes from anxiety, too,” he adds. “At least when we laugh, there’s a feeling that we’re overcoming some kind of horror.” In his view, our world is already a dystopia, and all tragedy and comedy flows from this fact.

Parasite, in particular, hits a nerve, tapping into the persistent feeling that we are on the brink of social collapse. “The true horror and fear of Parasite isn’t just about how the present-day situation is bad but that it will only continue to get worse,” he says. “That’s my own fear in my life. I’m 50 now, so I’m going to die in about 30 years. My son is 23 now. When he reaches middle age, after I die, will it get better? I don’t know. I’m not so hopeful. Still, we have to try to live happily. We can’t cry every day.” (He’s surprisingly sanguine about all of this.)




More Essentials: Okja (2017) and Parasite (2019). Photo: Netflix/Everett Collection; Courtesy of the studio.
It’s perhaps because Parasite is such a distinctly Korean film that it resonates so widely. The trials and exigencies of modern Korean history — Japanese colonialism, the Korean War, military dictatorship — have given an entire generation of filmmakers like Lee Chang-dong (Burning), Park Chan-wook (Oldboy), and Bong a sense of breathtaking urgency. Korean filmmaking feels prescient today because of its own, recent entanglements with authoritarianism and poverty. It is less that Korean films have caught up with modern times than that modern times have caught up with Korean cinema.

“Okja, Snowpiercer, Parasite, they’re all stories about capitalism,” Bong says. “Before it’s a massive, sociological term, capitalism is just our lives.”

Bong was born in 1969, the youngest of four, in the southeastern city of Daegu, when South Korea was under the rule of a military dictatorship. His family’s house was near a U.S. military base, and some of his earliest memories are of watching American soldiers passing overhead in low-flying helicopters while the kids yelled what English they knew at them: “Tom! James! Hello, gum joo-so!” meaning “Give us some gum!” “The kids would shout any kind of name, and the American soldiers would wave their hands back,” he says. “I don’t mean to invoke the Korean War image of crying children, but those kids existed. The country was quite poor.”

Bong’s father was a graphic and industrial designer and professor. His mother worked as a housewife; her father had been an esteemed novelist during the Japanese colonial period. Bong never met him, though. The family was separated after the Korean War, and his maternal grandfather lived out the rest of his life above the 38th parallel in Pyongyang, North Korea. His mother’s sister lived up there, too. The siblings didn’t see each other again for 56 years, until they were reunited during one of the televised events in 2006 that brought together divided families. “Fifty-six years,” he says. “Totally fucking crazy.”


He gazes out the car window, recalling his first visit to L.A. more than a decade ago while on a press tour for The Host. “At the time, I felt the city looked very strange,” he says dreamily. It was so flat and wide, without the verticality and density that define cities like Seoul. “Everything is very … scattered,” he says in English. He speaks with unusual precision, as non-native speakers often do. “I cannot imagine what is the borderline of the city. I always want to know the borderline — it’s my personal problem.”

At least when we laugh, there’s a feeling that we’re overcoming some kind of horror.
Bong went to college to study sociology at Yonsei University in Seoul’s Sinchon neighborhood in 1988, which was a time of political upheaval. “Every week, there was a demonstration in the university,” he says. Just the year before, South Korea had hit a tipping point in its ongoing fight for democracy. News broke that the police had tortured a student to death, galvanizing nationwide mass protests that forced democratic elections. College campuses were regular battlegrounds where students demonstrated for the expansion of democratic rights, labor unions, and reunification with North Korea. By the time Bong graduated from college in 1995, South Korea was experiencing its first spasms of democracy.

“We hated going to class,” he recalls. “Every day was the same: protest during the day, drink at night. Except for a few people, we didn’t have much faith in the professors at the time. So we formed study groups of our own covering politics, aesthetics, history. We’d drink until late at night, talking and debating.” He adds, “I’m not the kind of person who likes to be stuck in a group, so even while we were protesting, I would leave and go watch a movie. The lead organizers probably thought I was a bad activist.”

During demonstrations, the protesters threw rocks; the riot police threw rocks back and shot tear-gas canisters from cannons. Bong, along with everyone in his generation, made “humanitarian” Molotov cocktails from a mixture of paint thinner and water — they were visually explosive but less dangerous than those made with gasoline. “The other side were young kids like us who got conscripted into the military and sent out here, so we didn’t actually want to injure them,” he says. “Still, both sides were incredibly violent. It was a really dangerous time.”

Clouds of tear gas were a near-daily presence during Bong’s first two years on campus. “It was a very traumatic smell. It’s impossible to describe: nauseating, stinging, hot,” he says. “It’s strange, sometimes I smell it in my dreams. Usually dreams are images, but I sometimes have this sensation of smelling it. It’s really horrible, but I guess that’s the way it would be.”

In The Host, there is a machine that pours out a tear-gas-like substance called Agent Yellow to disperse protesters. The protagonists fight back with debris and Molotov cocktails in a scene clearly plucked from the director’s activist days. But while his films often have a radical impulse, they’re not didactic. “Song Kang-ho’s character in The Host has no direct relationship with America,” Bong explains. “He’s just a kind of dumb guy who runs a kiosk on the Han River.” His characters are typically uninterested in politics but get swept up in machinery much larger than them: global capitalism, governmental infrastructure, authoritarian forces.

We pull up to the Four Seasons, where a fleet of bellhops swarms the car to open the door for us. Just through the hotel entrance, a saleswoman is standing outside a small, glass-walled parfumerie. She hands Bong a sample of Krigler’s Sierra Vista cologne, which she describes as a “sexy scent” of cedarwood and jasmine. He takes a sniff. “It’s better than tear gas,” he says, laughing.

In 1992, Bong returned from two years of mandatory military service for his junior year of college. South Korea was in the throes of transformation. Censorship laws had relaxed, and unofficial French-style cinematheques were cropping up. The pop group Seo Taiji and Boys debuted, writing lyrics that were increasingly critical of conservative aspects of Korean culture. Film magazines sprang up, and a critic culture rose with them. “There was a weird explosion of pop culture,” Bong remembers.

Back on campus, he co-founded a cinema club called Yellow Door (“Very stupid name. The door for the group was yellow”) with students from neighboring schools like Hongik University, Ewha Womans University, and Sogang University. “We watched movies every day, analyzed them, wrote treatments,” he recalls. That’s when he made his first films, including a stop-motion short, Looking for Paradise, about a gorilla trying to escape imprisonment, and a 16-mm. short called White Man (Baeksaekin). I tell him I’ve had difficulty tracking down the latter. “Please don’t see it,” he pleads, after disclosing it’s an Easter egg on the Korean DVD release of Memories of Murder. “It’s a super-stupid, fucking boring film. It’s just terrible.”

Park Chan-wook, whose company, Moho Film, produced Snowpiercer, doesn’t remember it that way. It was the early ’90s, and he was working on an independent film, when a crew member called him and said, “I have finally found a short film that will satisfy your odd taste in movies.” Park watched White Man and says he “was instantly mesmerized by the film’s grotesque sense of humor.”

But not until Bong’s second feature, Memories of Murder, did his visual style begin to gel. In another life, he would have been a comic-book artist. Bong meticulously storyboards everything he shoots, and his movies look like individual frames come to life. He sketched out every scene for Parasite and Memories of Murder himself — complete with dialogue — and for films with bigger visual effects, like Okja and Snowpiercer, he worked with an artist. “He gave us storyboards that were fully bound books,” says Yeun of his experience acting in Okja. “They look like mangas, where you’re just like, Oh, this is the movie.”







An early scene in Parasite. [Tap, click, or swipe for more.]
Yeun describes the director as a “human animator.” He recalls how, on set, Bong would show him a shot with stand-ins so he could picture the composition before stepping into the frame himself. “Some people get jarred by that because they don’t like being told where to stand. But when you see the frame, you’re like, I know what we’re achieving here,” Yeun says. “You feel like a color.”

Tilda Swinton, who plays the colorful villain in both Okja and Snowpiercer, felt similarly. “Not having any particular process myself, I find this method peculiarly liberating. It frees us all to fill the frame, albeit within precise boundaries, with energy and a kind of quick-bursting freshness,” she writes in an email, emphasizing that this method still gives actors plenty of agency. “Director Bong is perpetually up for being entertained. It is a great feeling to amuse him.”

“It makes me less anxious,” Bong says of his process. “Without a storyboard on set in the morning, it’s like those nightmares where you’re in the middle of Manhattan just wearing your underwear. If you have a storyboard, it feels like you’re walking outside in clean, comfortable clothes.”

Perhaps most unconventionally, he doesn’t shoot coverage — that is, multiple shots from various angles and perspectives that get edited together later. Instead, he shoots exactly what he imagines, editing on set as he goes. “That process allows him to fully control what the cut is going to be, and the result ends up being very original,” says Kevin Thompson, the production designer for Okja. “He’s not getting more than he needs.” Bong finds it more efficient because everything about a shot has already been decided, so the cast and crew don’t have to repeat the same thing over and over from different perspectives. They can harness all their energies and focus on the task at hand.

Bong’s films often take years to plan (he first thought of the idea for Parasite in 2013) and require a complex wizardry of digital and practical effects. The luxe modernist house owned by the Parks in Parasite looks deceptively simple in its elegance, but it’s one of Bong’s most intricate creations yet. “On a fundamental level, if the structure of the house isn’t correct, the story doesn’t work,” he says. It was a technical puzzle: The first floor and private front yard were built on an empty outdoor lot in Jeonju, with a green screen placed on top where the second floor would eventually be digitally inserted. The other rooms of the house were built on separate soundstages. “There are nearly 480 visual-effects shots, but we can never feel it in the movie,” he says. “They’re invisible.”

We first experience the Park house as the Kims do, luxuriating in the clean, sleek lines and modern furnishings. It’s open, airy, and transparent, a private oasis away from the cramped and dingy space they live in. Eventually, the house opens up like an elaborate jewel box, with plot elements that hinge on the architecture: hiding, eavesdropping, scheming. More than a house, it becomes a map of class psychology and the resentment that simmers beneath the surface.


Bong Joon-ho is in his element poking around the Hollyhock House on Hollywood Boulevard, which was designed by Frank Lloyd Wright a century ago. We visit the historic building on his last day in L.A. He’s wanted to come here since the late actor Scott Wilson pointed it out to him on a drive. Bong wanders the space, politely pushing boundaries: He tests locked doors and pokes his head down into a basement that has been roped off from visitors. He wonders what the second floor is like. At this moment, he’s asking one of the docents if we can shut the house’s front doors — two massive concrete slabs weighing half a ton with hidden locks. The docent grimaces and agrees to shut one.

“Wow, it feels like the extension of a wall,” Bong says, marveling at the closed door. “Suddenly, it reminds me of the dialogue of Song Kang-ho in Snowpiercer, do you remember? Song Kang-ho said everybody thinks this is a wall, but actually this is a door, and then they explode it and go out. If we erase the borderline between the door and the wall …”


Bong on the set of Parasite. Photo: Courtesy of the studio
We quietly pad through the house until we reach a room in the corner — a small, sunny conservatory free of any furnishings. He takes a seat in the middle of the floor with a delighted smile. “Should we lie down?” Bong asks. He laughs and gets up, moving toward the library, which is stocked with children’s books. He points at the bookcase flanking the right side and giggles. “Push and open it. There’s a door behind it.”

As dark as Bong’s films get, they never lose their sense of play. At times, the jokes are mischievous references the viewer might not catch, like setting the slaughterhouse in Paramus, or elaborate visual gags. In Okja, for instance, a group of top executives huddle in a situation room to discuss how to deal with the super-pig; the shot is a meticulous re-creation of the famous Obama-era photo in which the president, Hillary Clinton, and other officials are gathered to witness the assassination of Osama bin Laden. “They’re all watching this pig cause a commotion with these really serious expressions,” he says, tickled.

Other times, it’s a love of hyperbole — like the family wailing over a death in The Host or Jake Gyllenhaal’s insanely over-the-top performance in Okja. Bong likes to have at least one toe across the line at all times. “Sometimes he would challenge me,” says Kelly Masterson, who co-wrote the script for Snowpiercer. “He’d be like, ‘This should be funny. I don’t know what, but it should be funny.’ ” He recalls writing a line for a scene in which the wizened rebel leader, Gilliam (Hurt), advises Curtis (Evans) to “cut out his tongue before he can talk to you” when he meets the train’s creator, Wilford (Ed Harris). Bong suggested they amend the line to “Cut out his tongue and eat it.” “Which is sort of cannibalism,” says Masterson, laughing. “I was just so horrified by that. But he thought it was funny. He would say something like that, and then he would giggle.”

For now, Bong doesn’t plan on doing another big-budget film like Snowpiercer or Okja. (He’s currently at work on a “slightly scary” Korean film inspired by a news event and an English-language production.) He prefers the size of a movie like Parasite because it allows him to achieve the specificity of his vision.

“You know how when you were little, you would use a magnifying glass to gather the sunlight into one point and burn a piece of paper?” he explains by way of metaphor. “Parasite was like taking a camera lens and gathering all of my concentration and focusing it in on one spot. When the scale is really grand, a bigger budget feels like a handicap. Your energy gets scattered.”

He adds, “And isn’t the smell of burning paper really nice?”

We stand in the loggia, a transitional space between the living room and the garden, looking out into the enclosed courtyard. The brightly lit grass vividly calls to mind one of the final shots from Parasite: the green, sun-drenched front lawn, glimmering with the promise of the freedom money can provide. The hope in Bong’s movies often springs from this longing: to find a little patch of sunlight to call your own, if only for a moment. The optimism almost makes it crueler.

We head toward the dining room of the house, which is furnished with a hexagonal wooden table and a fabric light fixture above.

“If there were a fire, this would burn really easily,” Bong says with a smile. “Of course, one hopes something like that doesn’t happen.”

The Korean filmmaker said he studied the films of fellow nominee Martin Scorsese, thanking the 'Irishman' director for inspiring his work.
After he thought he was done for the night, Parasite helmer Bong Joon Ho picked up the award for best director at the 2020 Oscars.

Earlier Sunday night, Bong made history when he won the Oscar for best international feature film for Parasite. The social satire is the first film from South Korea to be nominated and win in the category. (In 2019, Lee Chang-dong's Burning made the nine-film shortlist but didn't make the final category cut.)

He also became the first Asian nominee to win best original screenplay, shared with co-writer Han Jin-won.

Parasite earned six Oscar nominations in all, including for best production design and best picture. 

Upon accepting the award, Bong thanked each of his fellow nominees for the profound impact they've had on his career.

 WATCH
2020 Oscars: The Most Memorable Moments | THR News
PLAY VIDEO
Read Bong's full acceptance speech below.

Thank you. After winning best international feature, I thought I was done for the day and was ready to relax.

Thank you so much. When I was young and studying cinema, there was a saying that I carved deep into my heart, which is that "The most personal is the most creative."

That quote is from our great Martin Scorsese. When I was in school, I studied Martin Scorsese's films. Just to be nominated was a huge honor. I never thought I would win.

When people in the U.S. were not familiar with my films, Quentin [Tarantino] always put my films on his list. He's here, thank you so much. Quentin, I love you.

And Todd [Phillips] and Sam [Mendes], great directors that I admire. If the Academy allows, I would like to get a Texas chainsaw, split the award into five and share it with all of you.

Thank you. I will drink until next morning, thank you.

The irony that I was about to talk to Bong Joon-Ho about his award-winning film, Parasite, in one of the fanciest neighborhoods in Los Angeles (Beverly Hills, to be exact) was not lost on me. I was surrounded by giant, bodacious houses and lounging around in a green-room filled with delicate artisan pastries, an exquisite buffet and a full-on coffee bar—something I’ve only encountered once or twice before. Suddenly, it all made sense. In that moment, I knew exactly how the Kim family felt in Parasite—charmed by that glimpse into a fancy lifestyle and enamored by all that it had to offer.


Parasite film poster.

South Korean director Bong Joon-Ho’s Parasite, which has drawn in extensive accolades from many a film publication (ourselves included) and took home the first Palm D’or for South Korea, is a film about two families from opposite ends of the class hierarchy coming together and the chaos that ensues from it. Although Bong has relentlessly expressed that the Parasite is not meant to be a political film, it’s hard not to see it as one. With widening wage gaps and a discernable distinction between the have and the have-nots, the film itself is a thrilling, innovative look at those extremes. Left unchecked and the events of Parasite might become an eventual reality; metaphorically, it feels like we’re already there.

So it comes as a surprise that when we (me and four other representatives from other publications) went in to see Bong, he was casually sitting at the table in a black t-shirt with a wide smile. As he carefully listened to us ask our questions one at a time, never did it feel like he saw us as anything other than his fellow man. If he felt any annoyance at talking to us, it never showed. Never mind that like we were talking to one of the most successful and prestigious directors in the world; it felt like we were talking to an old friend.

As the five of us engaged him with our personal questions about the film ranging from set design to story motifs and film elements, it became clear that despite all of the brashness of Parasite‘s politically charged message, the director behind it is first and foremost an artist who tells great stories.

Below is a compilation of all of the scattered questions that we asked him, and Bong’s thoughtful responses. I would definitely recommend watching Parasite before getting into this article. Spoilers ahead!

*Answers were translated from Korean by a translator at the interview.



Parasite is the first film that you’ve made in South Korea in a while. What was it like returning to Korea to shoot this film after the success of Snowpiercer and Okja?
I talked with a production company to do this project in 2013, which was during the post-production of Snowpiercer. So it wasn’t as if I decided that after Snowpiercer and Okja that I was going to return back to Korea. I just followed the stories that I wanted to tell at the time and let it naturally flow.

It doesn’t really feel like I’ve gotten out and come back. It feels like I have all this homework that I’ve given myself and I’m resolving them one by one like I have a blade in my hand, chopping off each tree that comes in my way as I go forward. Which tree I cut off—it’s all based on my impulses at the time.


Bong Joon-Ho and his film crew on the set of Okja.

Could you talk a little about the evolution of your career? Was it intentional to try to talk about a different subject each time?
In terms of the social commentary in my films, it’s not as if I intended to relay this political message through my films. That’s not why I create these narratives. I actually like to focus on the beauty of cinema and the strange portraits of all these individual characters. But no matter how much I focus on an individual, naturally it expands to portraying society in context that surrounds them—the ones that they are surrounded by. I think that’s a very distinctive process for me.

Parasite is very much a comedy that deals with some very serious societal issues, but it kind of devolves into a scarier, more thrilling place towards the end. Could you talk about how you wrote the film?
So during the screenwriting stage, I never decided, “oh, from this point it’s going to be horror and this point it’s going to be a comedy.” Even I’m just following the events as they happen, although I wrote the script myself. I never set a point and put a flag there and say, “this is where the shift will occur.” I think for me, it would actually be more difficult to maintain a singular tone and not have the film go through any tonal shifts. I think that would be more suffocating for me.


Kim Ki-taek (Kang-ho Song) holding the scholar rock.

One of the most audible reactions from the audience when they were watching the film was when Kim Ki-woo picked up the scholar rock and tried to use it to scare someone away. What is it like balancing these horror and thriller elements in a more grounded story?
I think it’s actually opposite, and the answer is in your question. Because the film is so grounded and faithful to reality, that’s why he can actually do that. Throughout the film that’s the moment that stands out. He’s basically just exaggerating. You’re surprised for a second but afterwards you immediately realize that he would never do that. He’s just exaggerating for the moment, and I think that’s something that as the audience you can very easily accept. So I never really worried about that borderline of what is reality, and what is like a comic book exaggeration. I think even in our normal lives we cross that line.

But that moment does serve a specific function within this film. The son talks about how this stone seems to constantly follow him. It shows that obsession, and of course later on during the climax something happens from that stone. So you can say it’s a little bit of foreshadowing.

Are you looking to cover different topics with each film you make? 
I am very easily distracted. It’s hard for me to stay consistent, so this is actually easier and more natural.

What was the process of putting the cast together? 
I thought it was very important that just in terms of the looks that they all looked like a family. In Korea we have very small photo studios all around the neighborhood and they always hang family portraits. When you go and visit someone’s house you’ll see their portrait and even without explaining anything, you’ll know that they’re siblings. And so that was very important for me to achieve.


Siblings Kim Ki-jung (So-dam Park) and Kim Ki-woo (Woo-sik Choi).

The actor who played the son [Woo-sik Choi], I actually worked with him on Okja. He was the young truck driver in that film. I wrote the script with him already in mind. Later on as I was finishing the script, I had the opportunity to look at the photo of the actress who played the daughter; I put their photos side by side and they looked so similar. It was like I just made a really fascinating discovery! In the opening scene of the film when you see them trying to find Wi-Fi and they’re crouched in front of the toilet together side-by-side, they really look like siblings.

What inspired you to tell this story about the divide between the rich and the poor? Where did the character of Min come from? Isn’t it rare for the rich and poor to intermingle like that?
Of course, it’s not so ordinary, but sometimes it happens. I am middle class growing up, but some of my friends were really poor, and some were really rich. Their relationship is something like that. And also when I was in university, I had many tutoring jobs so it’s quite common in South Korea.

When I was in college I tutored for a very rich family. I tutored a middle school boy and one day he took me to the second floor of their house and showed me their private sauna which is very similar to the one you see in the film. I remember being surprised!

At that time, I felt like I was peeping into the private lives of a completely strange family. I remember that eerie feeling I had spying on their private lives, and that was one of the inspirations for the story. And I really had chatted a lot with that boy that I taught. Of course, I was fired for talking and not really teaching!


Park Dong-ik (Sun-kyun Lee) and Park Yeon-kyo (Yeo-jeong Jo).

Within the film, the fear of North Korea plays a prominent role for some of the characters. It’s not about North Korea, but it’s there. Could you talk about that?
With that part, the original housekeeper imitates that North Korean anger. I think audiences in Korea and Japan will be able to understand the nuances of it more, but I don’t think it’s necessary to really put a lot of political meaning behind it. So it’s kind of like an offbeat humor/comedy moment. But anyways, the famous architect in the movie, he actually designed that basement bunker out of fear for the North Korean invasion. That’s quite real in Korea. Some very old generation rich guys actually made bunkers. It’s a really stupid thing for younger generation people. They’re like, “What the fuck?” It’s that kind of black comedy.

Some older generation rich people have made those secret bunkers—it was in the news! I think that couple could’ve joked around about how thanks to North Korea they were able to live in this secret space.

It’s interesting too because you’re making fun of that paranoia, but in the 50s here, we were really scared. Cold war, Russia, everything. Is that fear of North Korea comparable to that?
I think people have very mixed feelings. The younger generation might think of it as a joke, but still feel a sense of fear against that. And I think it’s very natural—I think people have various points of view for any event given the context in society.


Peaches.

How did you come up with the idea of using the peach as a plot device?
I also have an allergy—I’m allergic to shellfish. But it would be very difficult to just take a piece of shrimp out of the fridge and use it in that manner. With peach fuzz, you can be very discreet with spreading it around. It’s very secretive: the other person won’t know what you’re doing.

Even when we shot that scene, we made sure that the fuzz was reflected on sunlight, and I think it creates a very subtle atmosphere.

One of the more interesting motifs in the film is that of Native American imagery. Park Da-song is fascinated by it as reflected by his teepee, arrows, and headdresses. Where did this fascination come from and why did you choose to use Native American imagery?

Park Da-song’s room being designed.

In the film you see the elaborate headdresses and that teepee, but for the son and the mother they’re just fancy decorations—very surface level decorations. Kind of like that Ché t-shirt that people wear just because it’s cool. They have no real understanding of the actual history and the complicated context that surrounds Native Americans. It’s just reduced to decor.

And this is a spoiler, but a really important element of the film is the man who is living in the secret basement. In this story, it’s like the protagonist infiltrates this rich family’s house only to discover that there was someone already living there, and I think that’s kind of related to the history of Native Americans as well. I didn’t really intend this while I was writing the script, but in hindsight I realized that some audience members may make that connection.

What were the challenges, in visual terms, for this film?
The biggest challenge in this film is maybe almost everything—90% of the movie—happens in just two houses. It’s very limited space I have. In the case of Okja, it’s totally different. The movie starts from the deep mountainside in Korea and Seoul, the megacity. And the movie ends in New York, in the middle of Manhattan. So many locations there. But in this movie, it was basically like a play, where everything is focused on these two locations. That was why it was important to make sure that the rich house almost feels like its own universe. We had to be very meticulous and detailed in designing this space, and that was a challenging aspect.


Park Yeon-kyo.

The rich house, the poor house, and the neighborhoods surrounding the poor house were all sets that we built. We did a lot of meticulous planning with the production designer for those spaces.

Can you talk about the flooding scene and how those conditions were filmed?
Actually the whole pool neighborhood—the whole town in the movie—is built on a swimming pool and water tanks. We shot every scene in the pool neighborhood and the last two days we put water there. The water looks very dirty but actually the water is very clean. It’s like a facial mud mask water! It looks very shitty, but it’s actually really good for our actors.

It’s the sequence that we prepared the most for. With the toilet just spewing out excrement, we tested that a lot in terms of the pressure. We worked with the special effects and visual effects team a lot to prepare for that sequence.


The Kim family.

Do people actually live in those kinds of conditions in Korea?
So there are neighborhoods with that same atmosphere and aesthetic in Korea. We used those neighborhoods as reference. The art department went to those neighborhoods to take the materials. They went to abandoned houses to take decades-old doors and windows, and they used it to build a set.

Those neighborhoods are quickly disappearing in Seoul. They’re all being redeveloped into high rises and residential complexes. So you’re seeing less and less of those neighborhoods.

Aside from everything we talked about, what else do you want people to take away from the movie?
Personally, I’m a cinephile myself, and I love watching classic films. Sometimes, even when I watch classic films from 50 years ago they still feel very contemporary and current, and I love that feeling. I want people to remember this film as an honest record—an honest portrayal of the times that we currently live in. More than just being a record, I want them to see this film years and years afterwards and get the feeling that it’s still contemporary. It’s still about our current world. Maybe that’s too much to ask for, but that’s what I hope.


Director Bong Joon-Ho with the Palm D’or. Photo: AFP.

Parasite is out in select theaters in the US on October 11, 2019. Photos courtesy of NEON and CJ Entertainment.

This interview was conducted by Li-Wei Chu and four other reporters on October 3, 2019 in Beverly Hills, Los Angeles.

The past year has been a whirlwind for Bong Joon-ho, and he is still in the midst of it. His movie Parasite has whisked him to places few directors – and certainly no South Korean director – have been before. It started with winning the top prize at the Cannes film festival last May, and the momentum has not let up: critical adulation, box office success, US talkshow appearances and a ridiculous 170 awards and counting.

And not just not just awards in the “foreign film” categories; Parasite is the first foreign-language film to win the Screen Actors Guild’s coveted ensemble performance award. It is also up for six Oscars, including best picture and best director. Before, it was only connoisseurs who appreciated Bong’s singular output – including Donald Glover, Edgar Wright, Guillermo del Toro and Quentin Tarantino. Now there’s a whole online “#BongHive” sharing memes, news and general love about the 50-year-old film-maker. He’s this season’s must-have selfie for Hollywood stars to brandish on Twitter. Even Bong’s ever-present interpreter, Sharon Choi, has become a minor celebrity.

FacebookTwitterPinterest
The trailer for Parasite.
Bong has kept his feet on the ground throughout. He brought his eight-minute standing ovation at Cannes to a close because he was hungry. Similarly, he described the Oscars as no big deal because they are “not an international film festival. They’re very local.”

Advertisement

When we meet in London on a rainy, wintry morning, Bong is looking pretty windswept. His bouffant mop of hair is just about back in place, but he is wrapped in a big scarf, and has a cough. “The most difficult part has been the double, triple jetlag,” he – or rather Choi – says. Bong understands English and speaks it a little, but prefers to answer in Korean, trusting her to translate the nuances. “Physically, it has been really horrible but right now I’m doing good.”

Bong is no wide-eyed ingenue, though. His two preceding films, 2017’s Okja and 2013’s Snowpiercer, both effects-heavy sci-fi tales, were primarily in English and featured the likes of Chris Evans, Tilda Swinton, Jake Gyllenhaal and Ed Harris. He loves British and Irish actors, he says, not to mention British cinema – he claims to have watched Hitchcock’s Psycho at least 50 times. He has also been around the Hollywood block long enough to have had a run-in with Harvey Weinstein – of which more later.

The irony that Bong has scored his biggest success by returning to his native country and tongue is not lost on him. “I actually came up with this idea back when I was working on Snowpiercer,” he says. “It wasn’t as if I was motivated to return to Korea and do a Korean-language film, although I did want to pack this film with very Korean details.” There is a great deal of local specificity in Parasite, from its reference to a craze for opening Taiwanese pastry shops to an invented dish of packaged instant noodles mixed with sirloin steak (which has, of course, become a real-life trend), but Parasite is that rare “local” film that has struck a resounding global chord.

Parasite … an interrogation of the entire capitalist system?
FacebookTwitterPinterest
 Parasite … an interrogation of the entire capitalist system? Photograph: Asia Pacific Screen Awards
Parasite is a story full of spoilable surprises. Suffice to say, the setup contrasts two Seoul families at opposite ends of the class ladder. The Kims (led by Bong’s regular lead actor, Song Kang-ho) live in a semi-basement hovel in an alley that doubles as a public toilet; the Parks live in a minimalist palace on a Seoul hilltop. Things kick off when the son, Kim Ki-woo, becomes an English tutor to the Parks’ teenage daughter. Sensing an opportunity, the Kims set about replacing the Parks’ domestic staff one by one, pretending not to know each other. But, needless to say, the plan does not come off perfectly.


Sign up to our Film Today email
 Read more
“Korea, on the surface, seems like a very rich and glamorous country now, with K-pop, high-speed internet and IT technology,” Bong says, “but the relative wealth between rich and poor is widening. The younger generation, in particular, feels a lot of despair.” Just as there are people living in tents just around the corner from where we are in central London, so there are homeless people sleeping rough around Seoul’s central station, he says. “People who are in society’s blind spots.”

Parasite is not a simple tale of rich v poor. No one is totally innocent or guilty. Bong describes the film as “neutral”. He points out that Mr Park, whom he likens to Mark Zuckerberg, accrued his wealth through honest hard work. “He’s not particularly greedy, it doesn’t feel like he became rich by doing bad things.” At the same time, though, the Parks repeatedly express their contempt for the lower classes, even complaining that they smell different.

But the hard-up Kim family are also hard-working, albeit to more devious ends, and, in contrast to the atomised Park family, they are very unified. “That was one of the things I wanted to talk about with this film,” Bong says. “It’s not as if they have shortcomings or they are lazy. It’s just that they can’t get proper jobs.” He references a conversation in the film about how 500 college graduates applied for a single job as a security guard. “That’s not an exaggeration; it’s based on a real article I read.”

In that sense, Parasite could be taken less as a criticism of the class system than a “neutral” interrogation of the whole capitalist system. Is exploitation an inevitable outcome? Is there a better alternative? “People have to maintain mutual respect towards each other,” says Bong. “And this film deals with a situation where that minimal amount of respect you should have towards another human being is completely destroyed and ignored.”

‘Of course, my films did make a lot of money, but I don’t know if you could call me rich.’
FacebookTwitterPinterest ‘Of course, my films did make a lot of money, but I don’t know if you could call me rich.’ Photograph: Sarah Lee/The Guardian
Bong is as fascinated and baffled as anyone by how Parasite has taken off. “A lot of people say it’s a universal story because it’s about the gap between rich and poor, but I don’t think that’s all the answer,” he says. “I think this film has done so well because it appeals in a very cinematic way, as a film in itself. I really want to take time to look back at what that cinematic appeal was.”

Parasite isn’t just a great story; it is a great story brilliantly told. The pieces all seem to fit together: the performances, the structure, the meticulous design, the symbols and symmetries. The visual storytelling is so fluent, it barely needs subtitles, and Bong throws in a few of his trademark slow-motion scenes of extreme mayhem. But one of the director’s defining characteristics, for which the #BongHive adore him so much, is his uncanny ability to switch between tones and genres most western film-makers regard as mutually exclusive – often within a single scene. Parasite defies categorisation. It is a family drama, a black comedy, a suspense thriller, a class satire, even a domestic horror. That Hitchcock influence is clearly detectable, as are many others, but he has created a genre that is his own.

Advertisement

Social division is a theme that runs through much of Bong’s work, and, despite his avowed neutrality, he tends to favour the underdogs. His 2006 film, The Host, for example, also focused on a poor but loving family running a food stall, again led by Song. They take on a mutant fish-monster accidentally created by pollution from the US military in Seoul’s Han River. In Okja, it was a down-to-earth country girl who battles a dystopian corporation to save her only friend, a strangely adorable giant mutant pig. Snowpiercer, adapted from a French graphic novel, stages a class revolt on board a train containing the entire postapocalyptic population of the world – a horizontal counterpart to Parasite’s vertical class stratification. Chris Evans leads an assault by the have-nots at the rear on the privileged passengers dwelling at the front.

It was Snowpiercer, incidentally, that led to Bong’s run-in with Weinstein. The disgraced mogul acquired distribution rights to the film in 2012. Bong knew in advance of Weinstein’s “Harvey Scissorhands” reputation, and, sure enough, the producer chopped 25 minutes out of Snowpiercer. But Bong pushed back. At one stage, to retain a scene involving fish-gutting, he invented a lie about how the scene had personal meaning because his father was a fisherman. After bad test screening results for Weinstein’s cut, the mogul ultimately went with Bong’s original version, although it never had a UK release. Bong had no personal relationship with Weinstein to speak of, he says. Or, if he did, he would rather not get into it. “Because he was so high up and busy, I didn’t get to see him often. I only met him a couple of times in his editing room and in his office.”

Bong’s father is actually an art teacher. He places himself in the middle of Korea’s social ladder. “I grew up in a middle-class family. Even in terms of real estate, the house that I grew up in is in the middle – between the semi-basement home and the rich house you see in the film. I was really close with friends and relatives from both classes.” Parasite was inspired by his own experience tutoring a boy from a much wealthier family – at the introduction of his then-girlfriend, who was already tutoring the boy in English.

Surely after the success of his movies, Bong must be pretty well-off himself these days? “I’m not that rich!” he laughs. “I live in an apartment on the ninth floor. In terms of size, it’s probably around a quarter of the size of the house in the movie. Of course, my films did make a lot of money, but I don’t know if you could call me rich if you just look at my place in society.”

Okja … another take on social division.
FacebookTwitterPinterest
 Okja … another take on social division. Photograph: AP
Advertisement

Bong first came to international prominence in the early 00s as part of a wave of exciting new directors emerging out of South Korea, including Park Chan-wook (whose Oldboy also won a prize at Cannes), Lee Chang-dong, Kim Jee-woon and Kim Ki-duk. As with Bong, these film-makers seemed to have something fresh to offer. The stories were often dark and gruesome, but told with technical finesse, clearly influenced by Hollywood as well as Asian cinema, and unafraid to switch up tone and genre.

Bong’s second movie, Memories of Murder, was based on the real-life hunt for a serial killer in the 1980s, who had never been caught. It is a window on to how different life must have been in the South Korea of his childhood: military dictatorship, civil unrest, inadequate public services. Under permanent threat of attack from the North, schools hold drills for gas attacks, and whole towns are subjected to “blackout drills” at night. Bizarrely, the real-life killer was recently brought to justice. “One of his cellmates said he watched the movie a couple of times, but we don’t know if that’s true.”

Even within this grim premise, Bong finds moments of absurd comedy in the police investigators’ incompetence. “It’s not as if we were trying to make the audience laugh; it just really reflects the absurdity of Korea in the 1980s,” says Bong. “The laughter has a tinge of sadness to it.” It is a similar story with Parasite, he suggests. “It reflects that absurdity of our current times. The foolishness of this era of polarisation.”


Sharon Choi: how we fell for Bong Joon-ho's translator
 Read more
Perhaps this is a particularly Korean state of mind? “There is this collective anxiety,” he says. “Because war and separation of families, these are not abstract ideas to us. Even my mother’s sister in the North. These basic units of society and family are damaged, and Korea has spent decades with those consequences. So there’s a unique hysteria prevalent in Korean society.”

Whether or not it is a national trait, that element of bittersweetness seem to run through all of Bong’s work. It is never one thing or the other; it’s usually both, from Parasite’s steak-and-instant-noodle recipe to slapstick comedy in the face of serial killers and nuclear annihilation. Even Parasite’s world-conquering victory lap Bong regards with a level-headed ambivalence: “It’s kind of like a side job for me as a director,” he says. “My main job is not promoting a film, it’s writing scripts, and, of course, I’m doing that right now, in hotel rooms and on flights, but it hasn’t been easy. So there’s a duality with this entire process. Of course, it’s great and exciting, but I’m also desperate to return to my main job as soon as possible.”

Parasite Director Bong Joon-ho on the Art of Class Warfare
“I think we all have a very sensitive antennae to class, in general.”


BY GABRIELLA PAIELLA

October 8, 2019
The Kim family in Parasite.
The Kim family in Parasite.Courtesy of NEON + CJ Entertainment
Director Bong Joon-ho says the idea for his latest movie, Parasite, took hold years ago and continued to develop and grow over time. “Like a parasite,” he explains, absentmindedly ruffling his mop of black hair. “I don't know when or how it entered my body.”

Parasite is Bong’s filmmaking at its best: a taut thriller that vividly evokes the acute desperation of late capitalism, all wrapped in a layer of dark comedy. It’s about two families—one excessively rich, the other miserably poor—that become inextricably enmeshed with each other when the oldest son from the basement-dwelling clan gets hired as an English tutor for the wealthy residents of an airy mansion. That particular element has been incubating for a while. “When I was in college I worked as a tutor, and it was a pretty fun and strange experience,” Bong says. “I really felt like I was spying on this rich family.”

Bong is currently in New York City for a slew of press duties around the New York Film Festival, the latest in a busy year on the festival circuit, which has included Parasite becoming the first Korean picture to win the Palme d’Or at Cannes. He’s wearing a sharp steel grey suit and when his sleeve jacket rolls up while he’s gesticulating a point I catch a glimpse of a wrist tattoo. “Wife and son,” he laughs, when I ask him what it says. “Disappointing, right?”

a man wearing glasses a black shirt and a black blazer standing in front of a white background
Film director, Bong Joon-ho, speaks at the Los Angeles Premiere of Parasite, October 2019.Michael Kovac / Getty Images for NEON
It’s that sort of wry levity that permeates Parasite, as well as his last two English-language hits: 2017’s Okja (which tackles capitalism as it relates to animal rights) and 2013’s Snowpiercer (capitalism as it relates to making the entire world an uninhabitable dystopia). Through his translator, Bong discussed why he decided to make this similarly-themed movie in Korean, how he captured the textures of both wealth and poverty, and how to make the movie’s signature noodle dish.

WATCH
Musician Ashton Travis Wants to "Keep F—ing People's Minds Up" | The Juice

This interview contains mild spoilers for Parasite.

GQ: Parasite is similar thematically to Snowpiercer and Okja, but you made both those movies in English. Why was it important to you to make this one in Korean?

Bong Joon-Ho: It just happened very naturally. Because I'm based in Seoul, I wanted to tell the story about people around me in neighborhoods that I encounter on a daily basis. That’s where the thought began. I wanted to sort of delve deeper into the reality that surrounds me, as if I'm looking at it through a microscope—something smaller but also deeper.

ADVERTISEMENT

Rather than me coming back to Korea, it was more important that I come back to films of this size—like Mother and Memories of Murder—because Okja and Snowpiercer were relatively bigger budget films.

At what point in your life did you feel like you became class conscious? And when did you realize you wanted to start incorporating those themes into your work?

I think all creators, all artists, and even just everyone, we are always interested in class, 24/7. I think it would actually be strange if we're not. You know, when we're seeing people on the subway, on the streets, complete strangers, we wonder, how rich are they? Or you know, people we encounter in the airports, did they ride economy class, business class? We always wonder about this, because we live in the era of capitalism. I think we all have a very sensitive antennae to class, in general.

There was Us by Jordan Peele, Shoplifters by Hirokazu [Kore-eda], Burning by Lee Chang-dong, which all talk about class. These films sort of exploded out in the past couple of years. It's not as if we all gathered together for a big meeting on how we should talk about class, it just happened very naturally.

There are so many different ways for wealthy people to signal that they have money. How did you settle on the aesthetics for this particular family?

This family, they want to show that “We do have money, but we're also sophisticated. We're not ostentatious, we're not cheesy about it." That’s why they're living in this house designed by a famous architect. They want to be like, "I know art. I have artistic taste." They want to confirm it every moment, that they're not like cheap rich people.

But what they really want, and this is something Mr. Park says in the film, is they [draw] a line over their sophisticated world and they don't let anyone cross it. They're not interested in the outside world, the subway and people who might perhaps smell. They want to push everyone outside of that line and they want to remain safe behind it.

Smell is a pivotal force in the film. I know it’s the most evocative sense, but are there any other reasons why you wanted to use it to push the narrative forward?

The jobs that these characters take—tutoring, housekeeping, and driving—feature a rare moment where the rich and poor are together in a very private space and so close to one another that they can smell each other. It was kind of the perfect device in the story.

In The Host, you had a character who was a nationally ranked archer, and in this one, the mom is a former champion shot put player. What interests you about those athletes’ stories, especially those coming from working class backgrounds?

In The Host, she won the bronze, and the mom in Parasite, she won the silver medal that's hanging on the walls. I put in that setup to give the sense that if the husband and the mom fight, he might actually be the one getting hit by her. The father, he is the head of the household, but socially, economically, he's pretty incompetent. He's a loser, but physically, he's also weaker. I wanted to give that sense of just overall incompetence with this character.

What do you think makes the rich family such easy marks?

More than anyone else, it's the rich mom who's the really gullible character. But I never thought of her as someone who's dumb or idiotic. She's smart. She probably did well in school. It's just that she trusts people too easily because she's never experienced anything bad happen to her. You know, that character, she probably married into a rich family very young, led a very sheltered life under her parents, and never really struggled.

ADVERTISEMENT

I think you need to have something bad happen to you to start doubting people. She just never had that kind of thing happen to her.

In the same way that you had a very specific aesthetic for the rich family, I found that the textures of poverty were so vivid. What sort of preparation and studying did you do to make that come to life?

The art department tried really hard. We created the poor house, also that alleyway and all the neighborhood houses. We built that set on a water tank. The art department actually visited neighborhoods scheduled to be redeveloped and demolished. They actually went to houses abandoned by people who used to live there, to take the objects, doors, windows and plates to actually use them as materials to build the set. It really does have that realistic texture of a poor family neighborhood.

Yeah, I couldn't stop thinking about the scene of the toilet exploding as the sister sits there casually smoking a cigarette on top of it.

The special effects team prepared a lot to create that scene where the toilet spews just sewage water. We even tested the pressure of how strong the water would be spewed out of the toilet.

I read somewhere that your translator made up the word “ram-dom” for the noodle dish in the movie. What is that actual dish there?

It’s a mixture of two different types of instant noodles: one is a black bean and one is a spicy seafood flavor. It’s very popular with not only the working class, but the middle class. Usually rich people eat expensive, organic food, so they wouldn't eat something like this. But it's very popular with the kids, and rich kids are still kids in the end. They still have the same flavor palette. The mom adds sirloin on top of this cheap, instant dish, just to leave the signature of being rich. No one really eats it that way, it was my creation.

Because the Korean jjapaguri is a combination of two brand names, it's impossible to translate.

Something I was struck by in the movie is that there's a huge lack of class solidarity between the various working class people. What inspired you to write the relationships that way?

You point out something very important. You know, in Mother, you see the have nots and the needy clawing at each other and hurting one another. On the other hand, in The Host, you see the solidarity between them, they save each other and they gather their strengths together. And you could say Parasite is closer to Mother, where the weak and have nots are fighting one another. And that's sad, but it's also realistic. And from those moments, you get this element of sadness, but also the comedy, as well.

There’s a song, “in ginocchio da te,” that blasts over an important moment in the film and is the main music cue in the movie. Why that song in particular?

My father had a lot of Italian LPs, so I was familiar with them but I didn't know individual songs. Do you have an Italian cousin?

My father is from Italy, yes.

When we screened at Cannes, the Italian distributor was so excited. But you know, in that scene, they're threatening each other, it's pretty vicious and malicious, but I thought it would be great to have this relaxing tune that reminds you of the Mediterranean sun. You see it against a very violent scene, so I thought that contrast would be great.

ADVERTISEMENT

That song is usually used in a love story context. I looked it up on YouTube, and the singer, Gianni Morandi, he played a romantic comedy lead when he was young. The video is a black and white video of him singing that song and running to meet his lover.

The title of the song happened to be “Kneeling In Front Of You,” which I didn't know and it was a complete coincidence that the protagonists are kneeling as that song is playing.

When you won the Palme d'Or, what was that moment like for you? What was going through your head?

It’s a very hectic and crazy process. It's all so sudden, you're just like, Oh shit! What's happening? But then, after that, you follow a very set format. You have to go here to do this, you have to take a photo with your trophy like this, you're just being swept away. Then there's a party and you drink, and it's really the next morning when you wake up and Cannes is all quiet and the morning sun is shining in your room. That's when the real emotions start to kick in.

This interview has been edited and condensed.

Bong Joon-ho (Korean: 봉준호, Korean pronunciation: [poːŋ tɕuːnho → poːŋdʑunɦo]; born September 14, 1969) is a South Korean filmmaker. His films feature social themes, genre-mixing, black humor, and sudden mood shifts.[1] In 2017, Metacritic ranked Bong 16th on its list of the 25 best film directors of the 21st century.[2]

Bong first gained recognition for his second feature film, the crime drama Memories of Murder (2003), before achieving commercial success with his subsequent films, the black comedy monster movie The Host (2006) and the dystopian thriller Snowpiercer (2013), both of which are among the highest-grossing films in South Korea.[3]

Two of his films have screened in competition at the Cannes Film Festival—Okja in 2017 and Parasite in 2019, the latter of which earned the first Palme d'Or for a South Korean film.[4][5] For Parasite, Bong received Academy Awards for Best Picture, Best Director, Best Original Screenplay (shared with Han Jin-won), and, on behalf of South Korea, Best International Feature Film.[6][7] He tied the record for most wins in a single ceremony with Walt Disney and is the only person to win four awards for one film.[8][note 1]


Contents
1	Early life
2	Career
2.1	Early directing work
2.2	International success
2.3	American co-productions
2.4	Parasite (2019)
3	Personal life
4	Filmography
4.1	Feature film
4.2	Television
4.3	Short films
4.4	Acting
4.5	Documentary appearances
5	Awards and nominations
6	Frequent collaborators
7	See also
8	Notes
9	References
10	External links
Early life
Bong Joon-ho was born in Daegu, South Korea, in 1969, the youngest of four children.[10] His father was Bong Sang-gyun, a graphic and industrial designer and professor, while his mother Park So-young was a full-time housewife.[10][11] Bong's maternal grandfather, Park Taewon, was an esteemed author during the Japanese colonial period, best known for his work A Day in the Life of Kubo the Novelist and his defection to North Korea in 1950.[10][12] Bong's older brother Bong Joon-soo is an English professor at the Seoul National University, while his older sister Bong Ji-hee teaches fashion styling at Anyang University.[11]

While Bong was in elementary school, the family relocated to Seoul, taking up residence in Jamsil-dong by the Han River.[12] Bong enrolled in Yonsei University in 1988, majoring in sociology.[10] College campuses such as Yonsei's were then hotbeds for the South Korean democracy movement, and Bong was an active participant of student demonstrations, frequently subjected to tear gas early in his college years.[10][13]

Bong served a two-year term in the military in accordance with South Korea's compulsory military service before returning to college in 1992.[10] He co-founded a film club named Yellow Door with students from neighboring universities.[10] As a member of the club, Bong made his first films, including a stop-motion short titled Looking for Paradise and a 16mm short titled White Man.[10] He graduated from Yonsei University in 1995.[10]

In the early 1990s, Bong completed a two-year program at the Korean Academy of Film Arts. While there, he made many 16mm short films. His graduation films Memory Within the Frame and Incoherence were invited to screen at the Vancouver and Hong Kong international film festivals. He also collaborated on several works with his classmates — which included working as cinematographer on the highly acclaimed short 2001 Imagine, directed by his friend Jang Joon-hwan. Aside from cinematography on Hur Jae-young's short A Hat, Bong was also lighting director on an early short Sounds From Heaven and Earth by Choi Equan, and The Love of a Grape Seed.[1] Bong studied Martin Scorsese films and cited him as one of his major filmmaking influences in his Academy Award for Best Director acceptance speech for Parasite.[14]

Career
After graduating, he spent the next five years contributing in various capacities to works by other directors. He received a partial screenplay credit on the anthology film Seven Reasons Why Beer is Better Than a Lover (1996); both screenplay and assistant director credits on Park Ki-yong's debut Motel Cactus (1997); and is one of four writers (along with Jang Joon-hwan) credited for the screenplay of Phantom the Submarine (1999).[1]

Early directing work
Shortly afterwards, Bong began shooting his first feature Barking Dogs Never Bite (2000) under producer Cha Seung-jae, who had overseen the production of both Motel Cactus and Phantom the Submarine.[15] The film, about a low-ranking university lecturer who abducts a neighbor's dog, was shot in the same apartment complex where Bong had lived after his marriage.[16] At the time of its release in February 2000, it received little commercial interest but some positive critical reviews. It was invited to the competition section of Spain's San Sebastián International Film Festival, and won awards at Slamdance Film Festival and Hong Kong International Film Festival. Slowly building international word of mouth also helped the film financially — over two years after its local release, the film reached its financial break-even point due to sales to overseas territories.[1][better source needed]

Bong's second film, Memories of Murder (2003), a much larger project, was adapted from a stage play centered on a real-life serial killer who terrorized a rural town in the 1980s and was never caught (although a suspect confessed to the crime in 2019).[17] Production of the film was a difficult process (the film set a local record for the number of locations it utilized).[citation needed] It was released in April 2003 and proved a critical and popular success. Word of mouth drove the film to sell over five million tickets (rescuing Cha Seung-jae's production company Sidus from near-bankruptcy), and a string of local honors followed, including Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actor (for Song Kang-ho) and Best Lighting prizes at the 2003 Grand Bell Awards. Although passed over by the Cannes and Venice Film Festivals, the film eventually received its international premiere, again at San Sebastián, where it picked up three awards including Best Director. The film also received an unusually strong critical reception on its release in foreign territories such as France and the U.S.[1]


Joon-ho at the 25th Independent Spirit Awards on March 5, 2010
Following this, Bong took some time to contribute short films to two anthology film projects. Influenza (2004) is a 30-minute work acted out entirely in front of real CCTV cameras stationed throughout Seoul. The film, which charts a desperate man's turn to violent crime over the space of five years, was commissioned by the Jeonju International Film Festival, together with works by Japanese director Sogo Ishii and Hong Kong-based Yu Lik-wai. Twentidentity, meanwhile, is a 20-part anthology film made by alumni of the Korean Academy of Film Arts, on the occasion of the school's 20th anniversary. Bong's contribution is Sink & Rise (2003), a work set alongside the Han River.[1]

International success
The Host (2006) marked a step up in scale in Bong's career, and indeed for the Korean film industry as a whole.[citation needed] The big-budget ($12 million) work centered on a fictional monster that rises up out of the Han River to wreak havoc on the people of Seoul — and on one family in particular. Featuring many of the actors who had appeared in his previous films, the film was the focus of strong audience interest even before it started shooting, but many doubts were raised[by whom?] about whether a Korean production could rise to the challenge of creating a full-fledged, believable digital monster. After initially contacting New Zealand's Weta Digital — the company responsible for the CGI in The Lord of the Rings — scheduling conflicts led Bong to San Francisco-based The Orphanage, who took on the majority of the effects work. After rushing to meet deadlines, the film received a rapturous premiere in the Directors' Fortnight section of the 2006 Cannes Film Festival. Although local audiences were slightly more critical of The Host than attendees at Cannes, the film was nonetheless a major summer hit. With theater owners calling for more and more prints, the film enjoyed South Korea's widest release ever (on over a third of the nation's 1,800 screens) and set a new box-office record with 13 million tickets sold. The Host was quickly sold around the world, and US studio Universal bought the remake rights.[1][18]

Bong along with Michel Gondry and French director Leos Carax, directed a segment of Tokyo! (2008), a triptych feature telling three separate tales of the city. Bong's segment is about a man who has lived for a decade as a "hikikomori" — the term used in Japan for people unable to adjust to society who do not leave their homes — and what happens when he falls in love with a pizza delivery girl.[19]

Bong's fourth feature film Mother (2009) is the story of a doting mother who struggles to save her disabled son from a murder accusation. It premiered in the Un Certain Regard section at the 2009 Cannes Film Festival to much acclaim, particularly for actress Kim Hye-ja. Mother repeated its critical success locally and in the international film festival circuit. The film appeared on many film critics' "best-of" lists of 2010.[20]

In 2011, Bong contributed to 3.11 A Sense of Home, another anthology film, each segment being 3 minutes 11 seconds in duration, addressing the theme of home. The films were made by 21 filmmakers in response to the devastating earthquake and tsunami which hit the Tohoku region of Japan on March 11, 2011. The film screened on the first anniversary of the disaster.[21] In Bong's short film Iki, a teenage girl finds a toddler, seemingly dead, on a beach.[22]

That same year, Bong served as a jury member for the 27th Sundance Film Festival.[23][24] He was also the head of the jury for the Caméra d'Or section of the 2011 Cannes Film Festival,[25][26] and the 2013 Edinburgh International Film Festival.[27]

American co-productions

Joon-ho at the 2013 Deauville American Film Festival
Bong's first English-language film, Snowpiercer, was released in 2013. It is based on the graphic novel, Le Transperceneige, by Jean-Marc Rochette and Jacques Lob,[28][29][30][31][32] and set largely on a futuristic train where those on board are separated according to their social status. Snowpiercer premiered at the Times Square on July 29, 2013 in Seoul, South Korea,[33] before screening at the Deauville American Film Festival as the closing film on September 7, 2013,[34] the Berlin International Film Festival as the part of Berlin's Forum sidebar on February 7, 2014,[35] opening the Los Angeles Film Festival on June 11, 2014,[36] and the Edinburgh International Film Festival on June 22, 2014.[37] Upon release in cinemas, the film was met with near-universal praise and strong ticket sales, both in South Korea and abroad.[38][39] As of April 2014, it is the tenth highest-grossing domestic film in South Korea, with 9,350,141 admissions. The film holds the domestic record for the fastest movie (domestic and foreign) to reach four million admissions, which it achieved in its fifth day after premiere, and another record for the highest weekend figure (from Friday to Sunday) for a Korean film, with 2.26 million viewers.[40] In addition to receiving several awards and nominations, Snowpiercer appeared on several critics' lists of the ten best films of 2014.[41]

In 2015, Bong's next film Okja was announced.[42] On April 30, 2015, screenwriter Jon Ronson announced on his Twitter account that he was writing the second draft of Bong's screenplay for the film.[43] Darius Khondji joined the film as cinematographer in February 2016.[44] Filming for the project began in April 2016.[45]

Okja premiered at the 2017 Cannes Film Festival, where it competed for the Palme d'Or and sparked controversy due to it being produced by Netflix.[46] The film was met with boos, mixed with applause, during a press screening at the film festival, once when the Netflix logo appeared on screen and again during a technical glitch (which meant the film was projected in an incorrect aspect ratio for its first seven minutes).[47][48][49] The festival later issued an apology to the filmmakers.[50] However, despite the studio's negative response, the film itself received a four-minute standing ovation following its actual premiere.[51] The film was later released on Netflix on June 28, 2017, and received positive reviews.[52] On the film review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 84% based on 125 reviews, with a weighted average of 7.5/10. The site's critical consensus reads, "Okja sees Bong Joon-ho continuing to create defiantly eclectic entertainment – and still hitting more than enough of his narrative targets in the midst of a tricky tonal juggling act."[53] On Metacritic, the film has a score of 76 out of 100, based on 31 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".[54] New York Times critic A. O. Scott wrote, "Okja is a miracle of imagination and technique, and Okja insists, with abundant mischief and absolute sincerity, that she possesses a soul."[55]

Parasite (2019)

Joon-ho at the Munich International Film Festival in July 2019
Bong directed the full Korean-language film Parasite (2019), a dark comedy thriller about a poor family that insinuates itself into a wealthy household. The film premiered at the 2019 Cannes Film Festival, where it won the Palme d'Or, becoming the first Korean film to receive the award and the first film to do so with a unanimous vote since Blue Is the Warmest Colour at the 2013 Festival.[56] The film won the $60,000 Sydney Film Prize at the Sydney Film Festival.[57] At Sydney, Parasite was in competition alongside 11 other features from countries such as North Macedonia, Brazil and Spain, and Australian entrants Mirrah Foulkes's Judy and Punch and Ben Lawrence­'s Hearts and Bones.[58]

Parasite was released in South Korea by CJ Entertainment on May 30, 2019, and in the United States by Neon in late-2019. It received widespread critical acclaim and earned $115 million at the worldwide box office, becoming Bong's highest-grossing release.[59] For Parasite, Bong was nominated for Best Director and Best Screenplay at the 77th Golden Globe Awards, with the film itself winning Best Foreign Language Film.[60]

At the 92nd Academy Awards, Parasite became the first South Korean film to receive an Academy Award nomination in any category, receiving a total of six nominations and winning Best Picture, Best Director, Best Original Screenplay (shared with Han Jin-won), and Best International Feature Film. It was the first time a non-English language film won Best Picture.[61]

Personal life
Bong was a member of the now defunct New Progressive Party.[62] He has also voiced support for its predecessor, the defunct Democratic Labor Party.